IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON MULTIMEDIA, VOL. **, NO. **, ** 8
Fig. 5. The t-SNE visualization of similar action representations on the
NTU RGB+D 60 dataset. Multimodal fusion significantly improves inter-class
separability and intra-class compactness, with MPPL demonstrating the best
clustering performance.
Fig. 6. Single-class recognition accuracy comparison between MMCL and
MPPL on the NTU-RGB+D 120 X-Sub. MPPL demonstrates superior perfor-
mance for highly similar actions, such as “reading” and “writing”; “play with
phone/tablet” and “type on a keyboard”; “make OK sign” and “make victory
sign”.
and 3.4%, surpasses the prior best model LDFP by 0.4% and
0.2%, and exceeds LA-GCN by 2.8% and 3.3%. These results
demonstrate substantial performance gains on more complex
datasets. As shown in Fig. 6, MPPL also exhibits stronger
discriminative ability for highly similar actions, such as “eat
meal” vs. “brush hair,” “reading” vs. “writing,” “play with
phone/tablet” vs. “type on a keyboard,” and “make OK sign”
vs. “make victory sign.”
As shown in Table II, on the small N-UCLA dataset, our
model outperforms the single-modal method AGMS-GCN by
1.0% and surpasses the multimodal methods CFVL and LA-
GCN by 0.3% and 0.8%, respectively. Since there are no mul-
timodal approaches for Kinetics-skeleton, we compare only
Fig. 7. Two reconstruction methods for RGB images. The first row recon-
structs the image using adaptive cropping. The second row uses standard
cropping. In comparison, standard cropping fails to capture the motion
trajectories of specific actions, resulting in inaccurately generated language
prompts. Adaptive cropping achieves more precise language prompts by
intelligently preserving complete human regions.
TABLE V
COMPARISON OF SAMPLING STRATEGIES FOR COMPOSITERGBIMAGES,
ROIFRAMES,AND RAW FRAMES.BOLDINDICATES THE BEST RESULT,
underline INDICATES THE SECOND BEST. COMP.DENOTES COMPLEXITY.
Sampling strategy Composite RGB image ROI Raw
Comp. PPL SB Acc.(%) Acc.(%) Acc.(%)
RandomO(m)1102 0.72 91.5 91.2 90.5
Joint velocityO(nJ)727 0.60 93.4 92.2 91.7
Motion magnitudeO(nJ)735 0.59 93.4 93.3 91.2
Uniform (Ours)O(m)7120.6093.5 92.9 91.8
single-modal methods. As reported in Table II, our method
achieves the best performance, improving top-1 and top-5
accuracy over EMS-TAGCN by 2.1% and 2.3%, respectively.
To further demonstrate the advantages of MPPL in fine-
grained action recognition and complex scene understanding,
we evaluate the proposed method on two micro-action datasets,
as shown in Table III. On the Micro-Action 52 dataset, MPPL
achieves a higher Top-1 accuracy than the latest single-modal
and multimodal methods, outperforming PCAN by 0.4%.
However, its Top-5 accuracy is 0.9% lower than that of PCAN,
suggesting that MPPL still has limitations in distinguishing
extremely subtle action variations. On the iMiGUE dataset,
MPPL achieves the best performance in both Top-1 and Top-
5 accuracy. Overall, MPPL achieves competitive results across
all six mainstream action recognition datasets, validating the
effectiveness of our multimodal feature fusion strategy and its
capability for fine-grained action recognition.
D. Ablation study
In this section, we provide a detailed analysis of how dif-
ferent modules, constraints, and hyperparameter settings affect
the overall performance. All ablation studies are conducted on
the NTU-RGB+D 120 dataset.
1) LMMs in MM-Gen:In MM-Gen, the quality of gen-
erated vision and language modalities depends heavily on
the choice of LMMs and text instructions. To mitigate the
impact of generation quality, we explore different LMMs and
evaluate both person detection accuracy and the generated
language descriptions. For person detection, we manually
annotate human regions in video frames and compute detection
accuracy against the ground truth using IOU. The language
This article has been accepted for publication in IEEE Transactions on Multimedia. This is the author's version which has not been fully edited and 
content may change prior to final publication. Citation information: DOI 10.1109/TMM.2026.3726241
© 2026 IEEE. All rights reserved, including rights for text and data mining and training of artificial intelligence and similar technologies. Personal use is permitted,
but republication/redistribution requires IEEE permission. See https://www.ieee.org/publications/rights/index.html for more information.
Authorized licensed use limited to: SHENZHEN UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on September 17,2026 at 12:51:49 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 