IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON MULTIMEDIA, VOL. **, NO. **, ** 2
on this foundation, recent studies explore large multimodal
models (LMMs) [12], [13] to enhance skeleton-based action
recognition. As shown in Fig. 1 (b), existing methods typically
use text descriptions or RGB features as auxiliary supervision
during training to guide skeleton encoder learning. These
descriptions may take the form of fixed prompts, learnable
prompts, or language generated by large language models
from RGB images. However, they often suffer from seman-
tic incompleteness, ambiguity, or bias, making the models
sensitive to description quality and reducing robustness and
deployment reliability. Furthermore, auxiliary modalities are
used only as training guidance without contributing to final
classification, leaving their potential underexploited. These
limitations highlight a critical challenge:How can comple-
mentary multimodal information be effectively exploited to
enhance recognition accuracy?
Motivated by the above challenges, we propose a novel
Multi-modality Progressive Prompt Learning (MPPL) frame-
work to enhance skeleton-based action recognition. As shown
in Fig. 1 (c), MPPL injects semantic knowledge and visual
features into the skeleton feature space via LMMs, guiding the
representation learning of the skeleton encoder. By refining
prompts to influence classification decisions, MPPL further
enables precise discrimination of visually similar actions.
Specifically, we first introduce a Multimodal Generation (MM-
Gen) module. MM-Gen employs LMMs to reconstruct RGB
images and generate action-related language descriptions.
Since generating language for all video frames can introduce
redundancy and noise, and current LMMs cannot efficiently
process full video streams. To address this, we sample key
frames and combine them into composite RGB images with
temporal cues, enabling more efficient and concise language
generation.
To reduce semantic ambiguity and action-irrelevant noise,
we introduce the Entropy-based Cross-Modal Alignment
(ECMA) module. ECMA establishes remapping layers to
each modal feature and enforces cross-modal alignment us-
ing an entropy-guided alignment loss. Vision features guide
remapped textual features through entropy-based denoising
to suppress textual bias, while textual features constrain
remapped vision features via entropy suppression to reduce
action-irrelevant noise. This bidirectional alignment enhances
semantic consistency and produces robust cross-modal fea-
tures. Additionally, auxiliary modalities only guide represen-
tation learning, limiting their potential at the decision layer.
Therefore, we design a learnable Prompt Refinement Branch
(PRB) that dynamically refines classification features and
highlights complementary modality-specific cues. Together
with ECMA, it forms a progressive guidance mechanism.
ECMA first aligns multimodal representations, while PRB
further refines classification through learnable prompts. This
design improves the recognition of visually similar yet seman-
tically distinct actions while maintaining low inference com-
plexity. Experimental results on public datasets demonstrate
that MPPL achieves competitive performance with strong
generalization and robustness. The main contributions of this
paper are as follows:
•We propose a novel Multi-modality Progressive Prompt
Learning (MPPL) framework to improve skeleton-based
action recognition. The vision and semantic knowledge
are injected into the skeleton feature space, endowing the
model with effective environmental awareness.
•We design a Multimodal Generation (MM-Gen) module
that sparsely samples video frames extracted from re-
gions of interest and reorganizes them into a temporally-
structured composite RGB image, enabling spatial en-
coding of motion evolution for more coherent motion
description generation by large language models.
•Entropy-based Cross-Modal Alignment (ECMA) effec-
tively suppresses image-text noise and achieves bidirec-
tional semantic alignment between vision and textual
features using feature remapping and an entropy-guided
alignment mechanism.
•We develop a Refinement Prompt Branch (PRB) to dy-
namically enhance classification features through adap-
tive prompts. PRB guides the model to focus on comple-
mentary language cues, which are crucial for capturing
subtle motion variations.
II. RELATEDWORK
A. Skeleton-based Action Recognition
Early skeleton-based action recognition methods [14] ex-
hibit limitations in capturing joint topology and higher-order
correlations. Owing to the inherent graph structure charac-
teristics of skeletons, graph convolutional networks (GCNs)
have received widespread attention in skeleton-based action
recognition. ST-GCN [3] models joint connections using man-
ually constructed adjacency matrices, effectively improving
action recognition performance. However, the fixed topology
limits the flexibility of GCNs in feature extraction. To address
this, CTR-GCN [4] introduces a channel-wise correlation
refinement mechanism that aggregates joint features within
each channel. Nonetheless, improvements in topology alone
cannot overcome the limitations of local modeling, often
neglecting relationships among distant nodes. MS-G3D [5]
designs higher-order adjacency matrices to model long-range
dependencies across multi-hop neighboring joints. Similarly,
BlockGCN [15] adopts a distance-based skeleton modeling ap-
proach to capture complex relationships among distant nodes.
Transformers also achieve strong performance in skeleton-
based action recognition. SelfGCN [16] combines the Trans-
former with graph convolutions to enhance long-range and
cross-channel interactions. However, single-modal approaches
fail to fully capture interactions between actions and the
environment.
B. Multimodal-based Action Recognition
To better capture interactions with the environment, multi-
modal approaches [6], [7], [8], [9] to action recognition have
received increasing attention. These methods typically model
the relationships between actions and the environment from
multiple perspectives, enhancing similar action discrimination
and overall robustness. VPN [6] projects RGB images and 3D
poses into a shared space and fuses them linearly, but such
methods fail to capture spatial relationships among skeleton
This article has been accepted for publication in IEEE Transactions on Multimedia. This is the author's version which has not been fully edited and 
content may change prior to final publication. Citation information: DOI 10.1109/TMM.2026.3726241
© 2026 IEEE. All rights reserved, including rights for text and data mining and training of artificial intelligence and similar technologies. Personal use is permitted,
but republication/redistribution requires IEEE permission. See https://www.ieee.org/publications/rights/index.html for more information.
Authorized licensed use limited to: SHENZHEN UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on September 17,2026 at 12:51:49 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 