IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON MULTIMEDIA, VOL. **, NO. **, ** 3
Fig. 2. The overall framework of the proposed MPPL. The Multimodal Generation (MM-Gen) module reconstructs RGB images and generates action-
related language descriptions. The Entropy-based Cross-Modal Alignment (ECMA) module reduces text bias and visual interference through entropy-guided
alignment loss. The Prompt Refinement Branch (PRB) combines multimodal classification features with skeletal classification features to achieve complementary
classification decisions.
joints, limiting the modeling of complex actions. MMNet [8]
designs a two-branch GCN to model sparse skeletal joints
and bones, while using a CNN to process RGB images. Star-
Transformer [9] encodes RGB features and 2D joint heatmaps
as tokens and concatenates them for the Transformer network.
However, such methods achieve only shallow integration and
miss deep semantic correlations. To address this, Kim et al.
[10] propose cross-modal fusion where modalities exchange
features and interact through attention. However, their vision
encoders require large and high-quality data and still show
limited semantic alignment. With the stronger generalization
of LMMs in open-world settings, integrating vision and lan-
guage for action recognition is an emerging trend.
C. Assisted Learning with Large Multimodal Models
In recent years, LMMs [11], [17] have shown strong gener-
alization in computer vision. Using techniques such as prompt
and instruction learning [11], LMMs fuse vision and language
features to achieve a deep understanding of images and gener-
ate corresponding textual descriptions. As a result, researchers
have increasingly applied LMMs to action recognition. For ex-
ample, MMFR [18] uses pre-trained vision–language models
for masked skeleton feature reconstruction, improving fine-
grained recognition. To overcome the lack of visual context
in label-based descriptions, LDFP [19] employs LMMs to
generate image-based text and fuse it with skeleton features
via entropy-based fusion. However, this approach still lacks
direct interaction with visual context. C2VL [20] establishes
multimodal contrastive learning across skeleton, vision, and
language features by the pre-trained LMMs, enriching skeleton
details. Similarly, MMCL [12] employs LMMs as auxiliary
networks for co-learning with skeleton encoders, improving
robustness and generalization. However, these methods are not
optimized for language ambiguity and bias, which are critical
for robustness and reliability. Our MPPL framework addresses
this by suppressing language bias and visual interference via
an entropy-based cross-modal alignment module and refining
classification features through a prompt branch, fully exploit-
ing multimodal information in action recognition.
III. METHODOLOGY
In this section, we first present an overview of MPPL
framework. We then describe the multimodal generation mod-
ule and the skeleton encoder, followed by the entropy-based
cross-modal alignment module and the collaborative learning
objectives across modalities. Finally, we introduce the prompt
refinement branch together with its optimization objective.
A. Overview
Fig. 2 illustrates the overall framework of the Multi-
modality Progressive Prompt Learning (MPPL). MPPL en-
hances skeleton representation learning by progressively in-
jecting semantic knowledge and visual cues from auxiliary
modalities through large multimodal models. The Multimodal
Generation (MM-Gen) module provides structured semantic
and visual guidance by reconstructing representative RGB
composite images and generating concise action-related lan-
guage descriptions. Based on these features, the Entropy-based
Cross-Modal Alignment (ECMA) module performs bidirec-
tional cross-modal alignment to suppress semantic ambiguity
and modality-specific noise, producing more consistent rep-
resentations. To ensure that auxiliary information effectively
contributes to final decisions, a Prompt Refinement Branch
(PRB) further refines prompt-aware features and strengthens
discrimination between visually similar actions. Through pro-
gressive cross-modal guidance and prompt refinement, MPPL
improves fine-grained action recognition while maintaining
low inference complexity.
B. Multimodal Generation
In multimodal data, visual images and natural language
complement each other. Given a datasetD={(S i, Ui)}D
i=1,
This article has been accepted for publication in IEEE Transactions on Multimedia. This is the author's version which has not been fully edited and 
content may change prior to final publication. Citation information: DOI 10.1109/TMM.2026.3726241
© 2026 IEEE. All rights reserved, including rights for text and data mining and training of artificial intelligence and similar technologies. Personal use is permitted,
but republication/redistribution requires IEEE permission. See https://www.ieee.org/publications/rights/index.html for more information.
Authorized licensed use limited to: SHENZHEN UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on September 17,2026 at 12:51:49 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 