IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON MULTIMEDIA, VOL. **, NO. **, ** 4
Fig. 3. Multimodal Generation (MM-Gen) module. MM-Gen employs the [detection] function of MiniGPT-v2 to extract human regions from video frames
and concatenate them into a temporally structured composite RGB image. Based on the composite RGB images and category-specific textual instructions,
LMMs generate action-related language prompts. We further explore two composition strategies for constructing the composite RGB image. Compared to (b),
(a) is better at fully presenting motion trajectories with large amplitudes, such as ”jump up” and ”sit down.” The generated language descriptions are also
more accurate.
whereS i denotes a skeleton sequence andU i is the cor-
responding video frames. To ensure strict cross-modal con-
sistency, the video frames are temporally aligned with the
skeleton input sequence, where each video frame corresponds
exactly to the skeleton frame at the same timestamp. We em-
ploy pre-trained LMMs (MiniGPT-4 [21], MiniGPT-v2 [22], or
LLaV A) to generate composite RGB imagesV i and language
descriptionsL i fromU i. This produces a new multimodal
datasetM= (S i, Vi, Li)D
i=1 with strictly aligned modalities.
1) RGB Image Reconstruction (RIR):Previous multimodal
methods rely on raw video frames that contain substan-
tial background interference, weakening motion-related cues.
Moreover, directly using multiple video frame embeddings
leads to cross-modal misalignment between visual and lan-
guage representations, while naive compression risks obscur-
ing subtle motion dynamics. Therefore, we construct a com-
pact composite image as the visual input to achieve motion-
focused, modality-aligned representations.
Specifically, we employ the[detection]function of
MiniGPT-v2 with the instruction “person” to extract human
regions of interest (ROIs). For two-person interactive actions,
we first obtain the respective detection boxes for each person,
then compute their bounding union to crop a region that
contains both individuals, thereby ensuring the completeness
of the interaction information. Since LMMs cannot describe
full videos, frame-by-frame descriptions cause redundancy
and lose temporal context. Therefore, we sparsely samplem
human ROIs fromnframes and concatenate them into a tem-
porally structured composite RGB image. Specifically, given
a video sequenceU i ={u 1
i , u2
i , ..., un
i }withnframes and a
category instructionc= ”person”, the image reconstruction
process is defined as:
Vi =Concat({Γ(ε v(ujk
i , c))|k= 1,2, ..., m}),(1)
whereε v denotes the LMM used to extract ROIs andj k = 1+
⌊ (k−1)(n−1)
m−1 ⌋. To ensure consistency in frame concatenation,
we applyΓto rescale human images and explore two strate-
gies. Fixed bounding boxes may miss critical motion, such
as a jump trajectory (Fig. 3 (b)). We instead track the body’s
lowest and highest positions across frames to adaptively set
bounding boxes, preserving motion trajectories and improving
action description accuracy (Fig. 3 (a)).
2) Language Prompt Generation (LPG):Natural language
is highly abstract and generalizable, capable of conveying
semantics, action intentions, or context. To generate descrip-
tions closely aligned with actions, many approaches use Visual
Question Answering (VQA) within LMMs to reason over
visual content and produce responses. Similarly, we employ
LMMs to extract action-relevant semantic information from
the reconstructed RGB images. We design a sequence of query
instructionsQ:“This is a continuous sequence of actions. Is
this action{CLS}? What is the movement state of the person
in the picture? Please answer briefly.”to extract information:
Li =ε l(Vi, Q),(2)
Whereε l denotes the LMM used to generate the language
description. Because reconstructed RGB images contain tem-
poral information, a simple prompt like“What are the people
in the image doing?”may be insufficient, especially when
multiple subjects are involved. To address this, we explicitly
include image properties in the instructions to enable the
model to critically understand the dynamic states of actions.
C. Skeleton Stream Branch
In the SSB, the skeleton encoder acts as a plug-and-play
module that can be replaced with any mainstream action
encoder, such as a GCN or Transformer. GCNs model data
with graph structures to capture spatial dependencies, while
Transformers use self-attention to capture long-range temporal
or feature relationships. Building on the above, we adopt our
self-developed STI-MSA network as the skeleton encoder in
this paper (see Supplementary Materials). STI-MSA captures
both local and global spatiotemporal dependencies in skeleton
actions using a GCN-based spatiotemporal feature interaction
mechanism and a multiple self-attention architecture. For
comprehensive evaluation, we also include several mainstream
GCN- and self-attention-based models.
D. Entropy-based Cross-Modal Alignment
LMM-based methods typically rely on feature remapping or
contrastive constraints for cross-modal alignment. However,
they often overlook semantic bias, visual noise, and model
ambiguity. To address this issue, we propose the Entropy-based
Cross-Modal Alignment (ECMA) module, which guides the
learning of visual and language features using an entropy-
aware weighting strategy. Specifically, the composite image
Vi and languageL i are fed into pre-trained encodersE v and
This article has been accepted for publication in IEEE Transactions on Multimedia. This is the author's version which has not been fully edited and 
content may change prior to final publication. Citation information: DOI 10.1109/TMM.2026.3726241
© 2026 IEEE. All rights reserved, including rights for text and data mining and training of artificial intelligence and similar technologies. Personal use is permitted,
but republication/redistribution requires IEEE permission. See https://www.ieee.org/publications/rights/index.html for more information.
Authorized licensed use limited to: SHENZHEN UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on September 17,2026 at 12:51:49 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 