IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON MULTIMEDIA, VOL. **, NO. **, ** 1
Multi-modality Progressive Prompt Learning for
Enhancing Skeleton-Based Action Recognition
Xin Wang, Long Liu,Member, IEEE,Siying Ren, Kai Lu, Zhiyong Ma, and Peng Sheng
Abstract—Skeleton-based action recognition has achieved sig-
nificant progress due to the efficiency and robustness of skeletons.
However, the absence of environmental descriptions limits the
ability of the model to distinguish actions weakly correlated
with labels. Multimodal approaches enhance accuracy by in-
corporating vision or language features, but often generate
inaccurate or incomplete action descriptions. Moreover, mul-
timodal features are only used as auxiliary signals during
training and remain underutilized at inference. To address these
issues, we propose a Multi-modality Progressive Prompt Learning
(MPPL) framework to enhance the representational capacity
of skeleton encoders. Specifically, we employ the Multimodal
Generation (MM-Gen) module to extract informative RGB
frames and action-related language descriptions from videos,
enhancing environmental awareness and fine-grained details in
the skeleton feature space. We design an Entropy-based Cross-
Modal Alignment (ECMA) module to suppress irrelevant noise in
vision and language features via entropy-weighted suppression.
This achieves bidirectional cross-modal alignment and guides
the learning of global skeleton representations. The Prompt
Refinement Branch (PRB) module adaptively refines classification
features and provides multimodal supervision during training.
Specifically, PRB further exploits learnable prompts to bridge
skeleton representations with category semantics, enabling a
progressive guidance mechanism with ECMA for skeleton fea-
ture learning. Extensive experiments on public datasets vali-
date the effectiveness of our approach. Code is available at:
https://github.com/imustwangxin/MPPL.
Index Terms—Skeleton-based action recognition, Large multi-
modal models, Prompt learning, Multi-modality.
I. INTRODUCTION
H
UMAN action recognition (HAR) is a fundamental
task in computer vision with broad applications in
sports analysis, human–computer interaction, entertainment,
and video surveillance [1]. Skeletal data provides a compact
and robust representation, ensuring computational efficiency
while remaining resilient to complex backgrounds and varying
illumination [2]. As a result, skeleton-based single-modal
HAR methods [3], [4], [5] have achieved remarkable progress
in recent years. However, these methods often ignore inter-
actions with the environment and lack fine-grained motion
semantics, making skeletal information alone insufficient to
This work is supported by the Xi’an Science and Technology Project under
Grant NO. 22GXFW0096 and the Key Industry Chain Project of Shaanxi
Province under Grant NO. 2020ZDLGY04-04.(Corresponding author: Long
Liu.)
Xin Wang, Long Liu, Siying Ren, Kai Lu, Zhiyong Ma, and Peng Sheng are
with the School of Automation and Information Engineering, Xi’an Univer-
sity of Technology, Xi’an 710048, China (e-mail: wangxin2168@163.com;
liulong@xaut.edu.cn; rensiying126@gmail.com; lk15550345071@163.com,
m2872634574@outlook.com, tsinghua341223@outlook.com).
Fig. 1. Comparison of multimodal HAR methods. Early multimodal methods
(a) suffer from weak inter-modal interactions, leading to limited understanding
of complex human motions. Existing vision-language frameworks (b) typically
rely on fixed prompts, learnable prompts, or language descriptions. However,
these methods are highly sensitive to textual variations and lack direct
interaction with the external environment. In contrast, our proposed MPPL
(c) simultaneously integrates textual descriptions with RGB images to achieve
sufficient environment interaction.
distinguish highly similar actions, such as “playing with
phone/tablet” and “typing on a keyboard.”
Early multimodal approaches [6], [7] address these limi-
tations by combining skeleton sequences with RGB or in-
frared data. Typically, these approaches employ independent
Convolutional Neural Networks (CNNs) to model RGB or
infrared images, while utilizing Graph Convolutional Net-
works (GCNs) to extract spatiotemporal skeleton features. The
multimodal features are then fused at either the feature or
the decision layer. As shown in Fig. 1(a), this dual-branch
architecture introduces additional environmental awareness
and improved accuracy. However, the simple feature fusion
strategies lack deep semantic alignment and cross-modal in-
teraction, limiting generalization and robustness in complex
backgrounds, occlusions, or dynamic scenarios [8], [9], [10].
Recently, researchers have drawn on advances in natural
language processing to improve computer vision tasks, particu-
larly through CLIP and its variants [11]. Trained on large-scale
image–text datasets, these models exhibit strong visual gener-
alization and semantic alignment for the open world. Building
This article has been accepted for publication in IEEE Transactions on Multimedia. This is the author's version which has not been fully edited and 
content may change prior to final publication. Citation information: DOI 10.1109/TMM.2026.3726241
© 2026 IEEE. All rights reserved, including rights for text and data mining and training of artificial intelligence and similar technologies. Personal use is permitted,
but republication/redistribution requires IEEE permission. See https://www.ieee.org/publications/rights/index.html for more information.
Authorized licensed use limited to: SHENZHEN UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on September 17,2026 at 12:51:49 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 