2124 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON CIRCUITS AND SYSTEMS FOR VIDEO TECHNOLOGY , VOL. 35, NO. 3, MARCH 2025
Fig. 5. Comparison of language descriptions when using a whole image or human action ROI as input.
1) Effectiveness of ROI Segmentation: The widely used
publicly available skeleton-based datasets such as NTU
RGB+D, NTU RGB+D 120, and PKU-MMD, are col-
lected in laboratory environments, the background in such
settings can interfere with the LMM’s interpretation of the
images. This often results in the LMM mistakenly identifying
environment-related information relevant to the actions. The
primary reason for these errors is that, from the perspective
of the LMM, actions like “brush teeth” or “eat meal” are
considered unlikely to occur in the laboratory. Therefore,
we crop the human action Region Of Interest from the whole
image to get a more accurate VQA answer. As shown in
the left part of Fig. 5, for pictures of “brush teeth” and
“drink water”, people in the pictures are holding a toothbrush
and a water cup respectively. However, the background of
the pictures makes LMMs believe that the characters in the
pictures all “has a cell phone and a remote control in their
hands”. Such descriptive environmental information not only
fails to assist action classification but, on the contrary, may
introduce side effects. Using human action ROI as input, LMM
can more accurately recognize objects on people’s hands since
interference information is eliminated. As shown in the right
part of Fig. 5, the LMM can accurately point out, the person
who is brushing his teeth has “a toothbrush and toothpaste
on his hand”, and the person who is drinking water has
“a cup of coffee on his hand”. It is worth noting that, for
real-world datasets like the Toyota Smarthome, background
information can assist the LMM in understanding images.
For example, sink background information helps recognize
the action of “Cook clean dish”, and kitchen background
information assists in identifying the action of “Cook use
stove”. For such datasets, human action ROI segmentation is
not necessary.
2) Effectiveness of LED: To evaluate the effectiveness of
the Language Environment Descriptions(LED) generated by
TABLE I
COMPARISONS OF ACTION RECOGNITION PERFORMANCE
WITH DIFFERENT FEATURES
the LEDG module for action recognition, we conduct a series
of experiments to examine the influence of images, skele-
tons (Z ske ), and language environment information (Z text ) on
recognition accuracy. The image features are extracted from
a pre-trained CLIP image encoder using the same frames
employed for generating Ztext . Skeleton features (Zske ), image
features, and Ztext are formed into different combinations and
used as the input to train different MLP classifiers with an
identical structure. The “combination” refers to the summation
of different features. The results of our experiments are
presented in Table I. From Table I, it is clear that skeleton data
(89.20%) is the most effective singular input for action recog-
nition, followed by Ztext (75.09%) and then images (62.83%).
This suggests that skeleton data is highly capable of capturing
motion patterns. Importantly, when combining skeleton data
with Ztext , there is a substantial enhancement in recognition
performance (90.81%), showcasing the contribution of LED
in providing essential environmental information to action
recognition. On the contrary, simply integrating both skeleton
data and images results in a decline in recognition performance
(89.07%). This is due to the inherent complexity of the
information in images, introducing a large amount of noise
that the classifier struggles to deal with [57]. This experiment
Authorized licensed use limited to: SHENZHEN UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on September 17,2026 at 12:51:47 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 