2122 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON CIRCUITS AND SYSTEMS FOR VIDEO TECHNOLOGY , VOL. 35, NO. 3, MARCH 2025
feature extraction yields limited effectiveness. To overcome
this limitation, we leverage the strong temporal relationships
and subtle motion dependencies inherent in skeleton data to
formulate the Query (Q ske ) to guide the environment feature
extraction. We calculate a new cross-attention coefficients
matrix and perform a weighted fusion according to the Key
(Ktext ) and Value (V text ) derived from the environmental
information. This approach enables a more efficient extraction
of informative environment features. The calculation formula
is as follows:
Qske = WqZske , (6)
Ktext = WkZtext , (7)
Vtext = WvZtext , (8)
ˆA = so f tmax
(
Qske KT
text
√dk
)
, (9)
Zcr oss = Vtext ˆA. (10)
From another perspective, our proposed skeleton-supported
extracted feature is a component of the self-attention mecha-
nism applied to the concatenated feature of Ztext and Zske . Let
Z′ = [Zske , Ztext ], the self-attention of Z′ can be expressed
as:
Oz′ =
(
Qske KT
ske Vske + Qske KT
text Vtext
Qtext KT
text Vtext + Qtext KT
ske Vske
)
. (11)
The output of our SEFE module Zcr oss equals to the underline
part of Oz′. Thus, Zcr oss can be viewed as a precise and
effective supplement to the skeleton feature.
D. Entropy-Based Feature Fusion
While environment descriptions can help improve the per-
formance of action recognition, in some cases the descriptions
can be misleading, affecting recognition accuracy. LMMs
might generate inaccurate descriptions of objects and their
usage for some images, such as potato chips mistaken for
bananas, and combs mistaken for mobile phones. Additionally,
environment descriptions often face challenges in distinguish-
ing similar actions with strong temporal dependencies, such
as “putting on shoes” and “taking off shoes”. To make
maximum use of accurate environment descriptions, elimi-
nate the negative impact of inaccurate descriptions, and fuse
the complementary information from skeletal features and
environmental features, we propose an Entropy-based Feature
Fusion (EFF) module.
1) Action Recognition Feature Space Mapping: The skele-
ton features and the environment description features are
embedded in different feature spaces, exhibiting heterogeneity.
Simply concatenating or summing up these heterogeneous
features would make it difficult for the MLP classifier to
effectively utilize the information from different modalities.
Therefore, the first step of our feature fusion module is
to separately map the skeleton features, the environment
description features, and extracted environment features into
the action recognition feature space, aiming to reduce the
gap in the feature subspace while preserving the integrity of
modality-specific semantics. We constructed three widely-used
Transformer [52] encoder with identical structures as feature
mapping encoders to respectively map Ztext , Zske , and Zcr oss
into the action recognition feature space. The mapping process
can be expressed as follows:
Mtext = Ftext (Ztext ) , (12)
Mske = Fske (Zske ) , (13)
Mcr oss = Fcr oss (Zcr oss) , (14)
where Ftext , Fske , Fcr oss represents the feature mapping
encoders, and Mtext , Mske , Mske are the encoded features in
the action recognition feature space. The mapping processes
are guided through three loss terms supervised by the action
label, which can be represented as:
ˆytext = So f tmax (Wtext Mtext ) , (15)
arg min
Wtext ,Ftext
Nd∑
i=1
Nc∑
c=1
−ylog
(
ˆytext )

 
Ltext
, (16)
ˆyske = So f tmax (Wske Mske ) , (17)
arg min
Wske ,Fske
Nd∑
i=1
Nc∑
c=1
−ylog
(
ˆyske
)
  
Lske
, (18)
ˆycr oss = So f tmax (Wcr ossMcr oss) , (19)
arg min
Wcr oss,Fcr oss
Nd∑
i=1
Nc∑
c=1
−ylog
(
ˆycr oss)
  
Lcr oss
, (20)
where Ltext , Lske and Lcr oss are the cross-entropy loss that
enforces multimodal features to be embedded into the action
recognition space. Nc is the number of action classes in
a specific dataset. Nd denotes the number of samples in
the training set. Wtext , Wske , and Wcr oss represent MLP
classifiers. y is the one-hot ground-truth action label.
2) Entropy Calculation: When the features from different
modalities are mapped into the action recognition space, the
predicted discrete probability distribution of actions can be
generated. A notably high probability for a specific action,
coupled with lower probabilities for others, signifies a highly
reliable recognition, and vice versa. Therefore, we can use
the entropy of the probability distributions to measure the
reliability of different modal features. The entropy can be
formulated as:
H ˆytext = −
Nc∑
c=1
ˆytext log ( ˆytext ), (21)
H ˆyske = −
Nc∑
c=1
ˆyske log ( ˆyske ), (22)
H ˆycr oss = −
Nc∑
c=1
ˆycr osslog ( ˆycr oss). (23)
When the recognition results are reliable and consistent, the
probability distribution will have low entropy because one or a
few outcomes dominate the distribution. Conversely, when the
prediction results are unreliable or ambiguous, the distribution
Authorized licensed use limited to: SHENZHEN UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on September 17,2026 at 12:51:47 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 