HE et al.: ENHANCING SKELETON-BASED ACTION RECOGNITION WITH LANGUAGE DESCRIPTIONS 2119
Fig. 1. Comparison of our framework with other skeleton-based action
recognition methods. Our approach fuses the complementary features of the
language environment descriptions with skeleton data to achieve fine-grained
action recognition.
take advantage of the powerful ability of the GCN models
to efficiently distinguish spatiotemporal differences in human
motions.
Over the past year or two, pre-trained Large Multimodal
Models (LMMs) have undergone rapid development, and
their capability to comprehend open-world images has been
widely validated [19], [20], [21]. Concurrently, the success
of models like Clip [26] demonstrates that language can
serve as a universal interface, enabling various instructions
to precisely guide end-to-end neural networks. Building upon
this, we propose a novel framework that leverages the com-
prehensive understanding capability of LMMs to generate
instance-level language descriptions that facilitate fine-grained
action recognition in skeleton-based models, as shown in
Fig. 1. Specifically, we first propose the Language Envi-
ronment Description Generation (LEDG) module to generate
language descriptions of the action and its corresponding
environments. For instance, during an individual’s action of
drinking water, while holding a cup, the descriptions might
indicate, “The person is holding a water cup.” By introducing
related environment descriptions, actions that are similar yet
distinct can be more accurately distinguished.
The simple summation or concatenation of environment
descriptions across different video frames can introduce sub-
stantial noise, reducing its effectiveness. To address this
concern, we introduce a Skeleton-supported Environment
Feature Extraction (SEFE) module to extract important envi-
ronmental information by leveraging the strong temporal
correlation and subtle motion dependencies in the skeleton
data. In addition, existing LMMs can not provide accurate
environment descriptions for all video frames. Directly using
environment descriptions for action recognition may decrease
the recognition ability for certain actions. To tackle this
issue, we introduce an Entropy-based Feature Fusion (EFF)
module to effectively combine complementary features from
skeleton data and environment descriptions. This enables us
to selectively highlight reliable information from skeletal and
environmental features while mitigating the impact of distract-
ing ones.
In summary, our main contributions are listed as follows:
1) Our framework integrates environment information
through language descriptions from LMMs with
skeleton-based action recognition to improve action
recognition performance. By utilizing pre-trained
LMMs, action-related language environment descriptions
are generated, which can help alleviate the problem
of environmental information loss in skeleton-based
methods.
2) We propose a SEFE module between skeleton data and
language environment descriptions to effectively extract
action-related environmental information across different
timestamps.
3) We introduce an EFF module to dynamically fuse com-
plementary features from skeleton data and environment
descriptions for better action recognition.
4) Experimentally, our framework improves the accuracy
of existing skeleton-based action recognition models
by a sizable margin and achieves state-of-the-art per-
formance on popular skeleton-based action recognition
benchmarks, including NTU RGB +D, NTU RGB+D
120, PKU-MMD, and Toyota Smarthome.
II. R ELATED WORKS
A. Skeleton-Based Action Recognition
In the earlier research on skeleton-based human action
recognition, Convolutional Neural Networks (CNNs) [27],
[28], [29] and Recurrent Neural Networks (RNNs) [30], [31],
[32] were prevalent. Nonetheless, these models lack the ability
to effectively capture the intricate topological structure of the
human body, resulting in suboptimal recognition performance.
The representation of human joints as graph nodes and the
description of joint connections through an adjacency matrix
has naturally led to a growing interest in methods based on
Graph Convolutional Networks (GCNs). Popular GCN-based
models employ convolution, pooling, or self-attention mech-
anisms over human skeleton graphs [9], [11], [16], [33],
[34], [35] or hypergraphs [2], [17], [36], [37] to capture the
interrelated dependencies of the human joints across temporal
and spatial dimensions. Although these models are capable
of discerning differences in motions, the challenge persists in
distinguishing actions that exhibit similar movement patterns.
B. Multimodal Action Recognition
In most studies on multimodal human action recognition,
skeleton data is used to guide visual encoders to better under-
stand the RGB features related to actions. Reference [38],
[39], [40]. For example, [22] utilized a teacher network to
transfer the structural knowledge of the skeleton modality
to a student network for the RGB modality. Reference [23]
proposed a spatial embedding to project the visual features
and the skeleton 3D poses in the same referential space,
and then an attention network is designed to capture joint
Authorized licensed use limited to: SHENZHEN UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on September 17,2026 at 12:51:47 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 