HE et al.: ENHANCING SKELETON-BASED ACTION RECOGNITION WITH LANGUAGE DESCRIPTIONS 2125
TABLE II
COMPARISON OF RECOGNITION ACCURACY WHEN SELECTING
DIFFERENT NUMBER OF FRAMES
TABLE III
COMPARISON WITH DIFFERENT LED A GGREGATION METHODS
shows adopting the LEDG module to selectively incorporate
action-relevant LED emerges as a strategic approach. We also
conduct an ablation experiment to analyze the impact of
different frame selection strategies on action recognition accu-
racy on the NTU RGB+D dataset under the X-Sub protocol.
As shown in Table II, increasing the number of image frames
extracted from the action videos from 4 to 16 leads to a
small improvement in action recognition accuracy. However,
further increasing the number of image frames has little
effect on recognition accuracy. Considering the computational
efficiency, we decide to select 16 frames per action video to
generate language descriptions.
3) Effectiveness of SEFE: To demonstrate the superiority
of the SEFE module, we conduct a comparative analysis
of different LED aggregation methods while maintaining
the CTR-GCN component fixed. Specifically, we employ a
CTR-GCN to extract human motion features from skeleton
data. These skeleton features are directly added with the
aggregated environment features obtained through the mean
method, self-attention method, and our SEFE method, respec-
tively, to train MLP classifiers with the same structure. The
evaluation results are presented in Table III. Our SEFE method
demonstrates a greater ability to aggregate language infor-
mation at different timestamps, surpassing the performance
of self-attention, which is only marginally superior to the
simplest mean method. This emphasizes the importance of
incorporating the skeleton data to extract key LED features,
especially when actions exhibit strong temporal dependencies
that are challenging to capture by LED.
4) Discussion of EFF: To explore the importance of our
proposed EFF module, we initiate a comparative analy-
sis between the MLP classifiers trained on the different
combinations of the skeleton features (Z ske ), original LED
features (Ztext ), original SEFE features (Z cr oss), action recog-
nition space mapping features (M ske , Mtext , Mcr oss), and
entropy-based fusion features ( Z f use ). The outcomes of these
experiments are presented in Table IV. From the table, we can
figure out that mapping LED and SEFE features into the
action recognition space can notably improve the recognition
accuracy from 91.71% to 93.34%. Meanwhile, Z f use increases
TABLE IV
EFFECT OF ENTROPY -BASED FEATURE FUSION
Fig. 6. Largest 5 positive and negative action recognition accuracy difference
between Zske +Ztext +Zcr oss and Zske .
the recognition accuracy to 93.96%, which is 0.62% greater
than simply adding features from different modalities together.
To further demonstrate the ability of EFF module, we per-
form a detailed analysis of the recognition accuracy of each
action. From the comparison, Zske with environment features
Ztext and Zcr oss outperform Zske in 38 action categories, while
22 actions exhibit decreased recognition accuracy. Fig. 6 dis-
plays the top 5 actions with the highest increase in recognition
accuracy and the bottom 5 actions with the most noteworthy
decline. This visualization shows the significant role of the
environment features Ztext and Zcr oss in providing criti-
cal environmental information, leading to obvious accuracy
improvements in actions like “reading”, “play with phone”,
and “drink water”. However, actions such as “take off jacket”
and “stand up” demonstrate an opposite trend, where the envi-
ronment features Ztext and Zcr oss introduce distracting noise,
contributing to a reduction in recognition accuracy. As shown
in Fig. 7, the language descriptions for “put on jacket” and
“take off jacket” are extremely similar. The introduction of
this type of environment language description has blurred
the boundaries of the features used to identify the action,
which in turn has reduced the recognition accuracy. One
primary cause of such inaccurate descriptions is temporary
relationship unawareness. The generated environment descrip-
tions are based on a single image, without considering the
temporal relationships between adjacent images. By incorpo-
rating EFF module, we can reduce the influence of distracting
environmental features, allowing the model to focus more on
the discriminative skeleton features, resulting in a significant
improvement in overall action recognition accuracy. With EFF
module, our method outperforms Zske in 47 action types,
with only 13 actions exhibiting slightly lower recognition
accuracy. Fig. 8 exhibits that the improved action recognition
becomes more accurate, while the accuracy of adversely
Authorized licensed use limited to: SHENZHEN UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on September 17,2026 at 12:51:47 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 