HE et al.: ENHANCING SKELETON-BASED ACTION RECOGNITION WITH LANGUAGE DESCRIPTIONS 2123
will have high entropy because the outcomes are more evenly
distributed.
3) Entropy-Based Feature Fusion: We initially derive the
reconstructed high-dimensional features Mtext , Mske , and
Mcr oss which are closely relevant to action recognition. Sub-
sequently, we multiply these features by their corresponding
entropy score h ˆytext , h ˆyske , and h ˆycr oss to explicitly obtain
complementary features, as depicted in the following equation:
h ˆytext = e−H ˆytext
e−H ˆytext + e−H ˆyske + e−H ˆycr oss
, (24)
h ˆyske = e−H ˆyske
e−H ˆytext + e−H ˆyske + e−H ˆycr oss
, (25)
h ˆycr oss = e−H ˆycr oss
e−H ˆytext + e−H ˆyske + e−H ˆycr oss
, (26)
Z f use = h ˆytext · Mtext + h ˆyske · Mske + h ˆycr oss · Mcr oss, (27)
where Z f use is the fused feature for the final action recogni-
tion. Through the EFF process, the information advantageous
for action recognition is reinforced, while the detrimental
information is weakened. Our framework can be trained in
an end-to-end manner, which can be represented as:
ˆy = So f tmax
(
W f use Z f use
)
, (28)
arg min
Nd∑
i=1
Nc∑
c=1
−ylog
(
ˆy
)

 
L f use
+w1Ltext + w2Lske + w3Lcr oss,
(29)
where W f use is the trainable MLP classifier, w1, w2, and
w3 are hyperparameters to control the impact of different
modalities. We regard both the skeleton and text modalities
as equally important for the action recognition task. To ensure
balanced contributions from both skeleton and text and high-
light the importance of Z f use , we set w1, w2, and w3 all to
0.1. During the network training process, the dynamic changes
induced by entropy scores also make the model more robust,
helping improve its generalization capability on test sets.
IV. E XPERIMENTS
A. Datasets
NTU RGB+D [53] is a widely used human action recog-
nition dataset, containing 56,880 distinct skeleton action
sequences. These sequences, executed by 40 volunteers, are
categorized into 60 action classes. The authors of this dataset
offer two benchmarks for evaluation, including the Cross-
Subject (X-Sub) approach, wherein training data comes from
20 specific subjects while testing data comes from the
other 20 subjects, and the Cross-View (X-View) approach,
wherein the training data contains 37,920 samples from camera
views 2 and 3, with test data, includes 18,960 samples from
camera view 1.
NTU RGB+D 120 [54] is currently the largest collection
of skeleton data for human action recognition, extending the
NTU RGB +D dataset with an additional 57,367 skeleton
sequences across 60 extra action classes. This dataset contains
113,945 samples categorized into 120 action classes from
106 volunteers, captured from three camera perspectives across
32 distinct setups with specific locations and backgrounds.
The authors also recommend two benchmarks for evaluation,
including the Cross-subject (X-Sub) where the training data
is derived from 53 subjects and the testing data from the
remaining 53 subjects, and Cross-setup (X-Set), where the
training data is sourced from samples with even setup IDs
and the testing data from samples with odd setup IDs.
PKU-MMD [55] is a comprehensive benchmark for human
action recognition, comprising 20,734 action samples across
51 categories. These samples were performed by 66 subjects
and recorded simultaneously using three Microsoft Kinect v2
cameras. The dataset offers two evaluation protocols to assess
model performance: Cross-Subject (X-Sub) and Cross-View
(X-View). Under the X-Sub protocol, samples from 57 subjects
are designated for training, while the remaining 9 subjects
are reserved for testing. In the X-View protocol, the samples
captured by the center and right cameras are used for training,
and the samples from the left camera serve as the testing set,
assessing the model’s robustness across different viewpoints.
Toyota-Smarthome [56] is a real-world daily living action
recognition dataset containing 16,115 clipped video samples.
The dataset includes 31 different activity categories performed
by 18 participants, with each participant engaging in natural
daily activities such as cooking, cleaning, and eating. The
Toyota Smarthome dataset provides three evaluation protocols:
Cross-Subject (CS), Cross-View 1 (CV1), and Cross-View 2
(CV2). For the CS evaluation protocol, the training group
consisted of 11 subjects, and the remaining 7 subjects were
reserved for testing. For CV1, the training set contains samples
from camera 1. For CV2, samples from cameras 1, 3, 4, 6,
and 7 are used for training. It is worth noting that this dataset
includes action categories such as “Eat at table” and “Cook
use stove,” where the environment related to human actions
contains information about larger objects. We replaced the
questions in the VQA with “What does the person in the
picture interact with? What is the person in the picture going
to do with these items? Answer the questions concisely.”
B. Implementation Details
Our experiments are conducted on a server equipped with
four A100 GPUs with PyTorch deep learning framework.
In the training phase, we employ an SGD optimizer with a
momentum of 0.9 and weight decay of 0.0004. The training
epoch is configured for 120 epochs, with an initial learning
rate of 0.01. At the 35-th and 70-th epochs, we perform a
learning rate reduction by a factor of 0.2. For the skeleton
data, we apply the pre-processing method described in [51].
C. Ablation Study
In this section, we conduct detailed experiments to evaluate
the impact of different components of our proposed frame-
work. To ensure the clarity and validity of the experimental
results, all experiments are configured on the X-sub benchmark
of the NTU RGB+D data set.
Authorized licensed use limited to: SHENZHEN UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on September 17,2026 at 12:51:47 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 