HE et al.: ENHANCING SKELETON-BASED ACTION RECOGNITION WITH LANGUAGE DESCRIPTIONS 2129
TABLE XIII
RECOGNITION ACCURACY IMPROVEMENTS FOR GCN M ODELS
TABLE XIV
PARMAS AND GFlops OF PROPOSED FRAMEWORK
reduced upon integrating crucial environmental information
related to actions using LED, as shown in Fig. 9(b).
F . Computational Complexity
The proposed framework consists of four main compo-
nents: GroundingDINO for human activity ROI segmentation,
LLaV A for generating environment-related language descrip-
tions of actions, CLIP-text-encoder for encoding these descrip-
tions, and the trainable neural networks (skeleton encoder,
SEFE module, and EFF module). The Params and GFlops
for each component are listed in Table XIV. As shown,
LLaV A accounts for the majority of the Params and GFlops
in our proposed framework, requiring higher demands on
hardware. However, it is worth noting that the trainable neural
networks account for only 10M parameters and 6 GFlops,
which is comparable to other skeleton-based action recognition
networks. Our post-processing fusion approach maximizes
the utilization of the LMMs while avoiding the significant
resources required for fine-tuning LMMs. During inference,
a single GPU with 32GB of memory is sufficient to meet the
inference requirements. While our approach does incur higher
computational costs, this increase is justified by the significant
improvement in recognition accuracy.
V. D ISCUSSION
Our model demonstrates exceptional performance in action
recognition. However, the reliance on LMMs like LLaV A
poses challenges for deployment in resource-constrained envi-
ronments due to their high computational demands. To address
this, we plan to explore knowledge distillation techniques in
future work to develop a more efficient, smaller model that
retains the core functionality of our LEDG module. In this
approach, LLaV A will act as the teacher model, while the
smaller student model will be trained to specifically recognize
environment features relevant to actions, thereby streamlining
the process. The student model will process input images
and directly output action-related environmental features in
an end-to-end manner. This bypasses the need for the Visual
Question Answering (VQA) paradigm and reduces depen-
dence on LMMs and CLIP text encoders. We expect this
strategy to significantly lower the computational requirements,
making the model more feasible for deployment in resource-
limited settings, while maintaining its strong action recognition
performance and low reliance on training data.
VI. C ONCLUSION
In this work, we propose a novel framework that combines
skeleton-based action recognition with language environment
descriptions. We first utilize LMMs to construct a Language
Environment Description Generation (LEDG) module, which
automatically generates action-related language environment
descriptions based on images. Additionally, we introduce a
Skeleton-supported Environment Feature Extraction (SEFE)
module to efficiently extract descriptive environment infor-
mation from language environment descriptions through the
guidance of the skeleton movements. Then, we design an
Entropy-based Feature Fusion (EFF) module to dynamically
combine the complementary skeleton feature and the envi-
ronment feature in the action recognition feature space. The
combined features are used to train an MLP action classi-
fier. With experiments on four popular skeleton-based action
recognition datasets, we show that our framework improves
existing skeleton-based GCN methods by a sizable margin
and achieves state-of-the-art performance among multimodal
action recognition models.
REFERENCES
[1] F. Patrona, A. Chatzitofis, D. Zarpalas, and P. Daras, “Motion analysis:
Action detection, recognition and evaluation based on motion capture
data,” Pattern Recognit., vol. 76, pp. 612–622, Apr. 2018.
[2] P. Koniusz, L. Wang, and A. Cherian, “Tensor representations for action
recognition,” IEEE Trans. Pattern Anal. Mach. Intell., vol. 44, no. 2,
pp. 648–665, Feb. 2022.
[3] M. H. Siddiqi et al., “A unified approach for patient activity recog-
nition in healthcare using depth camera,” IEEE Access, vol. 9,
pp. 92300–92317, 2021.
[4] C. I. Nwakanma, F. B. Islam, M. P. Maharani, D.-S. Kim, and J.-M. Lee,
“IoT-based vibration sensor data collection and emergency detection
classification using long short term memory (LSTM),” inProc. Int. Conf.
Artif. Intell. Inf. Commun. (ICAIIC), Apr. 2021, pp. 273–278.
[5] Y . Yan, J. Xu, B. Ni, W. Zhang, and X. Yang, “Skeleton-aided articulated
motion generation,” inProc. 25th ACM Int. Conf. Multimedia, Oct. 2017,
pp. 199–207.
[6] C. Li, Q. Zhong, D. Xie, and S. Pu, “Co-occurrence feature learning
from skeleton data for action recognition and detection with hierarchical
aggregation,” 2018, arXiv:1804.06055.
[7] W. Xiang, C. Li, Y . Zhou, B. Wang, and L. Zhang, “Generative action
description prompts for skeleton-based action recognition,” in Proc.
IEEE Int. Conf. Comput. Vis. (ICCV), Oct. 2023, pp. 10276–10285.
[8] L. Shi, Y . Zhang, J. Cheng, and H. Lu, “Two-stream adaptive graph
convolutional networks for skeleton-based action recognition,” in Proc.
IEEE/CVF Conf. Comput. Vis. Pattern Recognit. (CVPR) , Oct. 2019,
pp. 12026–12035.
[9] P. Zhang, C. Lan, W. Zeng, J. Xing, J. Xue, and N. Zheng, “Semantics-
guided neural networks for efficient skeleton-based human action
recognition,” in Proc. IEEE/CVF Conf. Comput. Vis. Pattern Recognit.
(CVPR), Jun. 2020, pp. 1112–1121.
[10] S. Yan, Y . Xiong, and D. Lin, “Spatial temporal graph convolutional
networks for skeleton-based action recognition,” in Proc. AAAI Conf.
Artif. Intell., 2018, vol. 32, no. 1.
Authorized licensed use limited to: SHENZHEN UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on September 17,2026 at 12:51:47 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 