2120 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON CIRCUITS AND SYSTEMS FOR VIDEO TECHNOLOGY , VOL. 35, NO. 3, MARCH 2025
Fig. 2. The overall framework of our proposed method. The Language Environment Description Generation (LEDG) module provides action-related
environmental information. The Skeleton-supported Environment Feature Extraction (SEFE) module aims at efficiently extracting key environmental information
related to action movements from redundant descriptions. The Entropy-based Feature Fusion (EFF) module combines complementary skeletal and environmental
features in the unified action recognition feature space. The fused feature is used to train an MLP action classifier.
spatiotemporal relationships across the visual features. These
multimodal models rely heavily on the dataset used to train the
visual encoder and cannot effectively exploit the topological
information of human joints like GCN-based models. In some
recent studies [24], [25], GCN and visual encoders are ensem-
bled for action recognition, where the recognition results of
GCN and visual encoders are stacked together to obtain the
final action category. However, these methods are also heavily
dependent on the dataset used to train the visual encoder.
C. Pre-Trained Large Multimodal Models
Individuals engage with the world through diverse chan-
nels, including vision and language. Each of these channels
possesses unique advantages in representing and conveying
specific concepts, contributing to a more comprehensive under-
standing of the world [41]. Drawing inspiration from this
notion, in recent years, there has been significant progress
in the research of LMMs. Pre-existing large-scale pre-trained
language-enhanced visual models consistently push the bound-
aries of state-of-the-art techniques across various computer
vision downstream tasks, such as recognition [26], [42],
[43], detection [44], [45], segmentation [19], [46], and visual
question answering [21], [47], [48]. Based on the power-
ful image understanding and text generation capabilities of
LMMs, generating language descriptions that contain impor-
tant action-related environmental information from images
presents a viable strategy.
III. M ETHODS
In this section, we begin by illustrating the workflow for
the Language Environment Description Generation (LEDG)
module, which automatically generates action-related envi-
ronmental information from video frames. Concurrently,
we describe the skeleton encoder used to capture skeleton
features. Subsequently, we introduce the Skeleton-supported
Environment Feature Extraction (SEFE) module, designed
for the efficient extraction of important environmental infor-
mation across temporal dimensions. Then, we introduce the
Entropy-based Feature Fusion (EFF) module, to dynamically
combine complementary skeletal and environmental features
in a unified feature space. Finally, the fused feature is
employed to train an MLP classifier for action recognition.
The detailed structure of our proposed framework is presented
in Fig. 2.
A. Language Environment Description Generation
1) Human Action ROI Segmentation: State-of-the-art pre-
trained LMMs encounter challenges in correctly comprehend-
ing human actions within distracting environments. Therefore,
the segmentation of the Region Of Interest (ROI) about human
actions becomes crucial to mitigate the influence of extraneous
backgrounds. With the help of Grounding DINO [49], we can
accurately detect and segment human action ROI. Grounding
DINO stands out as an open-set object detector capable of
identifying arbitrary objects through human inputs, including
category names or referring expressions. The segmentation
process can be seen in Fig. 3.
2) Action-Related Environment Description: To obtain crit-
ical environment information related to actions, we employ
the Visual Question Answering (VQA) paradigm. VQA allows
users to inquire about the contents of an image, with the model
responding in natural language [50]. We utilize the LLaV A
model [41], [47] to generate action-related language envi-
ronment descriptions. LLaV A connects a vision encoder and
a Large Language Model (LLM) for general-purpose visual
and language understanding. In our framework, we design
Authorized licensed use limited to: SHENZHEN UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on September 17,2026 at 12:51:47 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 