HE et al.: ENHANCING SKELETON-BASED ACTION RECOGNITION WITH LANGUAGE DESCRIPTIONS 2121
Fig. 3. Human action ROI segmentation.
Fig. 4. Language Environment Description generation.
two questions for extracting important information: “What
does the person in the picture have on his/her hands?”
and “What is the person in the picture going to do
with these items?”. These questions are coupled with the
directive “Answer the questions concisely” and then fed into
LLaV A. The LLaV A model subsequently provides correspond-
ing answers based on the action frame, as shown in Fig. 4.
3) Text Encoder: Inspired by the impressive advancements
made by Transformer models in the field of natural lan-
guage processing, we employ a pre-trained, transformer-based
language model known as CLIP-text-encoder [26] as our
text encoder. The text encoder transforms the language envi-
ronment descriptions into high-dimensional feature vectors.
To generate environmental features for a specific action video,
we select a set of t frames through downsampling. These
frames go through the ROI segmentation, VQA, and encoding
processes, resulting in a feature vector Ztext ∈ Rt× f , where
f is the feature vector dimension for a single frame.
B. Skeleton Encoder
We represent the human skeleton as a graph with joints
as vertices and bones as edges. The graph is denoted as
G(V, E, X). V is the set of N vertices. E is the edge set which
can be formulated as an adjacency matrix A ∈ {0, 1}N ×N ,
where Ai, j = 1 denotes the i-th joint and the j-th joint are
connected and 0 otherwise. X ∈ RN ×C is the input feature
set of N vertices, where C represents the feature dimension
of each vi ∈ V . Graph Convolution networks can effectively
model joint dependencies by aggregating information from
connected joints through adjacency matrix A and update X to
a new representation Zske ∈ RC ′
by a learnable parameter W.
The encoding process can be formulated as follows:
Zske = σ
(
D− 1
2 AD− 1
2 XW
)
, (1)
where D ∈ RN ×N is the degree matrix for normalization,
σ is the activate function. To enhance the topological cor-
relation ability, the adjacency matrix A can be changed to
a higher-order graph or a hypergraph. Our skeleton encoder
consists of multiple CTR-GCN [51] blocks, which mod-
els channel-wise topologies by learning a shared topology
as a generic prior for all channels and refining it with
channel-specific correlations for each channel.
C. Skeleton-Supported Environment Feature Extraction
When processing a specific action video, the environment
features Ztext ∈ R16× f are derived from 16 frames captured at
different timestamps. However, not all frames contain useful
information for action recognition. For example, the environ-
mental features of adjacent images may be the same, and some
environment features may be less relevant to action recogni-
tion. Direct summation or concatenation of the environment
feature of all 16 frames may introduce a considerable amount
of noise, affecting recognition accuracy. Therefore, we propose
a Skeleton-supported Environment Feature Extraction (SEFE)
module to efficiently extract high-dimensional environmental
features that are important for action recognition across tem-
poral dimensions.
1) Self-Attention: The self-attention [52] is a powerful
mechanism that allows exploring the relative importance of
different elements in sequence data, capturing long-range
dependencies, and thereby extracting informative higher-level
features. This algorithm can focus on important features and
ignore irrelevant ones. The key components of self-attention
are Query (Q), Key (K), and Value (V). In the calculation
process, it calculates the similarity scores between elements
using Q and K. Then, the similarity scores are normalized
to obtain attention coefficients. Subsequently, a weighted sum
is performed on the V based on the attention coefficients.
The calculation process can be represented by the following
formula:
Q = WqZ, (2)
K = WkZ, (3)
V = WvZ, (4)
O = so f tmax
(
Q K T
√dk
)
V, (5)
where Wq , Wk, Wv are model parameters, Z represents input
feature and O represents output feature. dk represents the
dimensionality of K, and the division of √dk is referred to
as scaling. When the variance of the Q K T becomes large,
scaling helps reduce the variance, leading to more stable
gradient updates during training.
2) Skeleton-Supported Feature Extraction: Due to the
redundancy and instability of the environment features, relying
solely on Ztext to compute the self-attention coefficients for
each frame and using these coefficients for environmental
Authorized licensed use limited to: SHENZHEN UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on September 17,2026 at 12:51:47 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 