2132 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON CIRCUITS AND SYSTEMS FOR VIDEO TECHNOLOGY , VOL. 35, NO. 3, MARCH 2025
Ling Wang (Member, IEEE) received the Ph.D.
degree in communication and system from the Uni-
versity of Electronic Science and Technology of
China in 2007. In 2008, she was with the Uni-
versity of Electronic Science and Technology of
China. From 2010 to 2011, she was a Research
Fellow with the National University of Singapore.
From 2014 to 2015, she was a Visiting Scholar with
the University of Illinois at Urbana–Champaign. She
is currently an Associate Professor with the School
of Communication and Information Engineering.
Her main research interests include pattern recognition and human–computer
interaction.
Ting Hu is currently the Chief Physician and
the Director of the Rehabilitation Department,
Chengdu First Orthopedic Hospital. She has exten-
sive clinical experience in treating cervical spondy-
losis, lumbar disc herniation, shoulder pain, knee
osteoarthritis, osteoporosis, various chronic pain
conditions, as well as perioperative rehabilitation
for trauma, joint and spinal fractures, rehabilitation
for post-fracture functional disorders, assessment of
adolescent non-idiopathic scoliosis, and integrated
Chinese-Western medicine clinical diagnosis and
treatment. She specializes in providing precise treatment plans that address
both symptoms and root causes using ultrasound-guided techniques combined
with modern rehabilitation therapies.
Hong Cheng (Senior Member, IEEE) received the
Ph.D. degree in pattern recognition and intelli-
gent systems from Xi’an Jiaotong University in
2003. From 2006 to 2009, he was a Post-Doctoral
Researcher with the Computer Science School,
Carnegie Mellon University, USA. Since 2005,
he has been an Associate Professor with Xi’an
Jiaotong University. He is currently a Full Professor
with the School of Automation and the Vice Director
of the Center for Robotics, University of Electronic
Science and Technology of China (UESTC). He is
also the Founding Director of the Machine Intelligence Institute, UESTC.
His current research interests include computer vision and machine learning,
robotics. He has been a Senior Member of ACM and an Associate Editor of
IEEE Computational Intelligence Magazine. He serves as the Finance Chair
of ICME 2014, Local Arrangement Chair of VLPR 2012, Registration Chair
of the 2005 IEEE ICVES.
Authorized licensed use limited to: SHENZHEN UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on September 17,2026 at 12:51:47 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 